##Jessica Smith
###ADA Essay Questions for Cohort 6

####1. Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?

During my studies as a microbiologist I became interested in programming due to the field of bioinformatics. I was intrigued by programs being able to make sense of the large library of genetic information of microbes. I have also always been interested in languages and I wanted to learn how code was able to control and create so many interesting tools. When I came up for an idea for an app I had a reason to delve into programming. I began with online tutorials for developing apps, and several books. Directing my own learning has been difficult due to the lack of an organized curriculum, the pace of online programs, and the lack of explanation I found from online sources. I had questions about how code works and why it works the way it does, and I wasn’t finding the answers I needed online. That is when I began looking into degree programs and then eventually coding camps, in order to provide myself with mentors to help enhance my learning experience. I hope that by working with ADA I will have the tools that I have been unable to find during my personal study of programming.

####2. What are your professional goals for the next 2 years, the next 5 years?

My basic professional goal for the next two years is to learn programming. Within that goal I would like to have a strong handle on at least one programming language if not two. I wish to gain the tools I need to allow me to continue my own personal education of programming to allow me to begin working on my app idea. I want to develop a broad understanding of the different applications of programming, with the end goal of determining what area of programming I enjoy best.

In my professional goals for the next five years I would like to continue to develop my programming skills by focusing on a specific area of programming. As well as continuing to work on and hopefully producing my own app. Along the way I am sure there will be changes to these goals as I begin to better understand the world of computer science.

####3. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?

I find that the biggest cause of mistakes is due to lack of effective communication. My example comes from an old job where I cleansed tissue donated from the recently deceased, from which we produced life saving medical grafts. Due to the nature of the products they needed to be properly stored after processing. My working partner and I thought we had finished our job completely but neither of us had put away the tissue (both assuming the other had), when the grafts were found they had to be discarded for safety reasons. We were upset with ourselves because by our carelessness we had to discard a gift given under the gravest of circumstances. From then on my partner and I developed better ways of communicating with each other, always careful to not assume to know what the other had done. I feel people don’t mean to make mistakes, but without enough information mistakes can easily happen. Therefore I am constantly seeking to improve my communication skills. I am not perfect and still make mistakes. However by developing better methods of communicating with others and by promoting openness in communication I have decreased the likelihood of mistakes being made.

####4. Have you taught yourself anything before? Describe what you learned and how you approached it.

In college I happened to live with several roommates who had guitars hanging around the apartment. I enjoyed listening to their playing and soon became inspired to try myself. I began by looking on YouTube for tutorials and lessons. From there I began to venture into tablature and chord progressions to learn songs that I liked. I came across difficulties in trying to teach myself. One problem was motivation based, sometimes the song I was learning was super challenging. I would get discouraged because it felt like the song was impossible! I learned that by breaking down each challenge into smaller components I was able to keep my spirits up. I also learned how necessary it is to keep practicing. I found that by practicing every day, even for as little as ten minutes, my playing improved. Learning to play the guitar also helped me learn to ask for help. In my friends I found great resources for learning different techniques and tips to help my playing. Learning the guitar has helped me learn tools to manage difficult problems; from breaking tasks into smaller pieces, to practicing everyday, and finally the understanding that asking for help isn't a weakness.
